CHAPTER THIRD DRACULA
BY BRAM STOKER
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Dr. Seward's Diary
CONTINUED
The funeral was arranged for the next succeeding day, so that Lucy and her mother might be
buried together.
I attended to all the ghastly formalities, and the urbane undertaker proved that his
staff was afflicted or blessed with something of his own ubiquitous suavity.
Even the woman who performed the last offices for the dead remarked to me in a confidential,
brother-professional way when she had come out from the death chamber.
She makes a very beautiful corpse, sir.
It's quite a privilege to attend on her.
It's not too much to say that she will do credit to our establishment.
I noticed that Van Helsing never kept far away.
This was possible from the disordered state of things in the household.
There were no relatives at hand, and as Arthur had to be back the next day to attend at his
father's funeral, we were unable to notify anyone who should have been bitten.
Under the circumstances, Van Helsing and I took it upon ourselves to examine papers—except.
He insisted upon looking over Lucy's papers himself.
I asked him why, for I feared that he, being a foreigner, might not be quite aware of English
legal requirements, and so might an ignorance make some unnecessary trouble.
He answered me, I know, I know.
You forget that I am a lawyer as well as a doctor, but this is not altogether for the law.
You knew that when you avoided the coroner.
I have more than him to avoid.
There may be papers more, such as this.
As he spoke, he took from his pocket-book the memorandum which had been in Lucy's breast
and which she had torn in her sleep.
When you find anything of the solicitors for the late Mrs. Westerna, seal all her papers
and write him to-night.
For me I watch here in the room and in Miss Lucy's old room all night, and I myself search
for what may be.
It is not well that her very thoughts go into the hands of strangers.
I went on with my part of the work, and in another half-hour had found the name and address
of Mrs. Westerna's solicitor I had written to him.
All the poor lady's papers were in order.
Explicit directions regarding the place of the burial were given.
I had hardly sealed the letter when, to my surprise, Van Helsing walked into the room
saying,
Can I help you, friend John?
I am free, and if I may, my service is to you.
Have you got what you looked for?
I asked.
To which he replied,
I did not look for any specific thing.
I only hope to find, and find I have, all that there was.
Only some letters, and a few memoranda, and a diary, new begun.
But I have them here, and we shall for the present say nothing of them.
I shall see that poor lad to-morrow evening, and, with his sanction, I shall use some.
When we had finished the work in hand he said to me,
And now, friend John, I think we may to bed.
We want sleep, both you and I, and rest to recuperate.
To-morrow we shall have much to do, but for to-night there is no need of us, alas.
Before turning in we went to look at poor Lucy.
The undertaker had certainly done his work well, for the room was turned into a small
chapela d'ante.
There was a wilderness of beautiful white flowers, and death was made as little repulsive
as might be.
The end of the winding sheet was laid over the face.
When the professor bent over and turned it gently back we both started at the beauty
before us, the tall wax candle showing a sufficient light to note it well.
All Lucy's loveliness had come back to her in death, and the hours that had passed, instead
of leaving traces of decays of facing fingers, had but restored the beauty of life, till
positively I could not believe my eyes that I was looking at a corpse.
The professor looked sternly grave.
He had not loved her as I had, and there was no need for tears in his eyes.
He said to me, Remain till I return, and left the room.
He came back with a handful of wild garlic from the box waiting in the hall, but which
had not been opened, and placed the flowers amongst the others on and around the bed.
Then he took from his neck, inside his collar, a little gold crucifix, and placed it over
the mouth.
He restored the sheet to its place, and we came away.
I was undressing in my own room when, with a prementory tap at the door, he entered,
and at once began to speak.
Tomorrow I want you to bring me, before night, a set of post-mortem knives.
Must we make an autopsy? I asked.
Yes, and no. I want to operate, but not what you think. Let me tell you now, but not a
word to another. I want to cut off her head and take out her heart.
Ah, you are a surgeon so shocked. You whom I have seen with no tremble of hand or heart,
do operations of life and death that make the rest shudder.
Oh, but I must not forget, my dear friend John, that you loved her, and have not forgotten
it for his eye that shall operate, and you must not help. I would like to do it to-night,
but for Arthur I must not. He will be free after his father's funeral tomorrow, and he
will want to see her, to see it. Then when she is coffined ready for the next day, you
and I shall come when all asleep. We shall unscrew the coffin lid and shall do our operation
and then replace all, so that none know, save we alone.
But why do it at all? The girl is dead. Why mutilate her poor body without need? If there
is no necessity for a post-mortem and nothing to gain by it, no good to her, to us, to science,
to human knowledge, why do it? Without such it is monstrous.
For answer he put his hand on my shoulder and said, with infinite tenderness, Friend
John, I pity your poor bleeding heart, and I love you the more because it does so bleed.
If I could I would take on myself the burden that you do bear. But there are things that
you know not, but that you shall know, and bless me for knowing, though they are not
pleasant things. John, my child, you have been my friend now
how many years, and yet did you ever know me to do any without good cause? I may err,
I am but a man, but I believe in all I do. Was it not for these causes that you sent
for me when the great trouble came? Yes, were you not amazed, nay horrified, when I would
not let Arthur kiss his love, though she was dying, and snatched him away by all my strength?
Yes, and yet you saw how she thanked me with her so beautiful dying eyes, her voice, too,
so weak, and she kissed my rough old hand and blessed me? Yes, and did you not hear
me swear a promise to her that so she closed her eyes grateful? Yes.
Well, I have good reason now for all I want to do. You have for many years, trust me.
You have, believe me, weeks past, when there be things so strange that you might have welled
out. Believe me yet a little, friend John, if you trust me not that I must think what
I think, and that is not perhaps well, and if I work as work I shall, no matter trust
or no trust, without my friend trust in me I work with heavy heart, and feel oh so lonely
when I want all help and courage that may be.
He paused a moment and went on solemnly, friend John, there are strange and terrible
days before us, let us not be two but one, that so we work to a good end, will you not
have faith in me?
I took his hand and promised him, I held my door open as I went away and watched him go
to his room and close the door, as I stood without moving I saw one of the maids pass
silently along the passage, she had her back to me, so did not see me, and go into the
room where Lucy lay. The sight touched me, devotion is so rare, and we are so grateful
to those who show it unasked to those we love, here was a poor girl putting aside the terrors
which she naturally had of death, to go watch alone by the beer of the mistress whom she
had loved, so that the poor clay might not be lonely till laid to eternal rest.
I must have slept long and soundly, for it was broad daylight when Van Helsing waked
me by coming into my room, he came over to my bedside and said, you need not trouble
about the knives, we shall not do it.
Why not, I asked, for his solemnity of the night before had greatly impressed me, because,
he said sternly, it is too late, or too early, see, here he held up the little golden crucifix,
this was stolen in the night.
How stolen, I asked in wonder, since you have it now, because I get it back from the worthless
wretch who stole it, from the woman who robbed the dead in the living, her punishment will
surely come but not through me, she knew not altogether what she did, and thus unknowing
she only stole, now we must wait.
He went away on the word, leaving me with a new mystery to think of, a new puzzle to
grapple with, the forenoon was a dreary time, but at noon the solicitor came, Mr. Markand,
of Holman's sons Markand and Litterdale.
He was very genial and very appreciative of what we had done, and took off our hands all
cares as to details, during lunch he told us that Mrs. Westenra had for some time expected
sudden death from her heart, and had put her affairs in absolute order, he informed us
that with the exception of a certain entailed property of Lucy's father, which now in default
of direct issue went back to a distant branch of the family, the whole estate, real and
personal, was left absolutely to Arthur Homewood, when he had told us so much he went on, frankly
we did our best to prevent such a testamentary disposition, and pointed out certain contingencies
that might leave her daughter, either penniless or not so free as she should be to act regarding
a matrimonial alliance, indeed we pressed the matter so far that we almost came into
collision, for she asked us if we were or were not prepared to carry out her wishes,
of course we had then no alternative but to accept, we were right in principle, and ninety
nine times out of a hundred we should have proved, by the logic of events, the accuracy
of our judgment, frankly however, I must admit that in this case any other form of
dispossession would have rendered impossible the carrying out of her wishes, for by her
predeceasing her daughter, the latter would have come into possession of the property,
and even if she had only survived her mother by five minutes, her property would, in case
there were no will, and a will was a practical impossibility in this case, have been treated
at her decease as underintessency, in which case Lord Galdeming, though so dear a friend,
would have had no claim in the world, and the inheritors being remote would not be likely
to abandon their just rights, for sentimental reasons regarding an entire stranger, I assure
you my dear sirs, I am rejoiced at the result, perfectly rejoiced.
He was a good fellow, but his rejoicing at the one little part, in which he was so officially
interested, of so great a tragedy, was an object lesson in the limitations of sympathetic
understanding. He did not remain long, but said he would look in later in the day and
see Lord Galdeming. His coming, however, had been a certain comfort to us, since it assured
us that we should not have to dread hostile criticism as to any of our acts. Arthur was
expected to arrive at five o'clock, so a little before that time we visited the great chamber.
It was so in very truth, for now both mother and daughter lay in it. The undertaker, true
to his craft, had made the best display he could of his goods, and there was a mortuary
air about the place that lowered our spirits at once.
Van Helsing ordered the former arrangement to be adhered to, explaining that, as Lord
Galdeming was coming very soon, it would be less harrowing to his feelings to see all
that was left of his fiancée quite alone. The undertaker seemed shocked at his own stupidity,
and exerted himself to restore things to the condition in which we left them the night
before, so that, when Arthur came, such shocks to his feelings that we could avoid were saved.
Poor fellow! He looked desperately sad and broken. Even his stalwart manhood seemed to
have shrunk somewhat under the strain of his much-tried emotions. He had, I knew, been
very genuinely and devotedly attached to his father, and to lose him, and at such a
time, was a bitter blow to him. With me he was as warm as ever, and to Van Helsing he
was sweetly courteous, but I could not help seeing that there was some constraint with
him. The professor noticed it too, and mentioned me to bring him upstairs. I did so, and left
him at the door of the room, so I felt he would like to be quite alone with her, but
he took my arm, and led me in, saying huskily,
You loved her too, old fellow. She told me all about it, and there was no friend had
a closer place in her heart than you. I don't know how to thank you for all you had done
for her. I can't think yet.
Here, he suddenly broke down, and threw his arms round my shoulders, and laid his head
on my breast, crying, Oh, Jack, Jack, what shall I do? The whole of life seems gone
from me all at once, and there is nothing in the wide world for me to live for.
I comforted him as well as I could. In such cases men do not need much expression. A grip
of the hand, the tightening of an arm over the shoulder, the sob in unison, are expressions
of sympathy dear to a man's heart. I stood still and silent till his sobs died away,
and then I said softly to him, Come and look at her.
Together we moved over to the bed, and I lifted the lawn from her face. God, how beautiful
she was! Every hour seemed to be enhancing her loveliness. It frightened and amazed me
somewhat, and as for Arthur, he felt a trembling, and finally was shaken with doubt as with
an egu. At last, after a long pause, he said to me in a faint whisper, Jack, is she really
dead?
I assured him sadly that it was so, and went on to suggest, for I felt that such a horrible
doubt should not have life for a moment longer than I could help, that it often happened
that after death faces become softened and even resolved into their youthful beauty,
that this was especially so when death had been preceded by any acute or prolonged suffering.
I seemed to quite do away with any doubt, and after kneeling beside the couch for a
while, and looking at her lovingly and long, he turned aside. I told him that this must
be good-bye, as the coffin had to be prepared, so he went back and took her dead hand and
his and kissed it, and bent over and kissed her forehead. He came away, fondly looking
back over his shoulder at her as he came. I left him in the drawing room, and told Van
Helsing that he had said good-bye, so the later went to the kitchen to tell the undertaker's
men to proceed with the preparations and to screw up the coffin. When he came out of the
room again, I told him of Arthur's question, and he replied, I am not surprised. Just now
I doubted for a moment myself. We all dined together, and I could see that poor Art was
trying to make the best of things. Van Helsing had been silent all dinner time, but when
we had lit our cigars, he said, Lord. But Arthur interrupted him. No, no, not that for
God's sake, not yet at any rate. Forgive me, sir. I did not mean to speak offensively.
It is only because my loss is so recent. The professor answered very sweetly, I said, I
only use that name because I was in doubt. I must not call you Mr., and I have grown
to love you. Yes, my dear boy, to love you as Arthur.
Arthur held out his hand and took the old man's warmly.
Call me what you will, he said. I hope I may always have the title of a friend, and let
me say that I am at a loss for words to thank you for your goodness to my poor dear. He
paused a moment and went on. I know that she understood your goodness even better than
I do, and if I was rude, or in any way wanting at the time you acted so, you remember.
The professor nodded. You must forgive me. He answered with a grave kindness. I know
it was hard for you to quite trust me then, for to trust such violence needs to understand,
and I take it that you do not, that you cannot trust me now, for you do not yet understand,
and there may be more times when I shall want you to trust when you cannot, and may not,
and must not yet understand, but the time will come when your trust shall be whole and
complete in me, and when you shall understand as though the sunlight himself shone through.
Then you shall bless me from the first to last for your own sake, and for the sake of
others, and for her dear sake to whom I swore to protect.
And indeed, indeed, sir, said Arthur warmly, I shall in all ways trust you. I know and
believe you have a very noble heart, and you are Jack's friend, and you were hers. You
shall do what you like.
The professor cleared his throat a couple of times, as though about to speak, and finally
said, May I ask you something now?
Certainly.
You know that Mrs. Westenra left you all her property.
No, poor dear, I never thought of it.
And as it is all yours, you have a right to deal with it as you will. I want you to give
me the permission to read all Mrs. Lucy's papers and letters. Believe me, it is no idle
curiosity. I have a motive of which, be sure, she would have approved. I have them all here.
I took them before we knew that all was yours, so that no strange hand might touch them,
no strange eye look through words into her soul. I shall keep them, if I may. Even you
may not see them yet, but I shall keep you safe. No word shall be lost, and in good time
I shall give them back to you. It is not a hard thing that I ask, but you will do it,
will you not, for Lucy's sake?
Arthur spoke out heartily, like his old self.
Dr. Van Helsing, you may do what you will. I feel that in saying this I am doing what
my dear one would have approved. I shall not trouble you with questions till the time comes.
The old professor stood up as he said solemnly, and you are right. There will be pain for
us all, but it will not be all pain, nor will this pain be the last. We, and you too,
you most of all, dear boy, will have to pass through the bitter water before we reach the
suite. But we must be brave of heart and unselfish, and do our duty, and all will be well.
I slept on a sofa in Arthur's room that night. Van Helsing did not go to bed at all. He went
to and fro as if patrolling the house, and was never out of sight of the room where Lucy
lay in her coffin, strewn with the wild garlic flowers, which sent through the order of lily
and rose a heavy overpowering smell into the night.
Nina Harker's Journal, 22 September. In the tray into Exeter, Jonathan, sleeping,
it seems only yesterday that the last entry was made, and yet how much between then. In
Whitby and all the world before me, Jonathan away, and no news of him, and now married
to Jonathan, Jonathan a solicitor, a partner, rich, master of his business, Mr. Hawkins,
dead and buried, and Jonathan with another attack that may harm him. Someday he may ask
me about it. Down it all goes. I am rusty in my short hand. See what unexpected prosperity
does for us. So it may be as well to freshen it up again, with an exercise, anyhow.
This service was very simple, and very solemn. There were only ourselves and the servants
there, one or two old friends of his from Exeter, his London agent, and a gentleman
representing Sir John Paxton, the president of the Incorporated Law Society. Jonathan
and I stood hand in hand, and we felt that our best and dearest friend was gone from
us. We came back to town quietly, taking a bus to Hyde Park Corner. Jonathan thought
it would interest me to go into the row for a while, so we sat down. But there were very
few people there, and it was sad looking and desolate to see so many empty chairs. It made
us think of the empty chair at home. So we got up and walked down Piccadilly. Jonathan
was holding me by the arm, the way he used to, in the old days, before I went to school.
I felt it very improper, for you can go on for some years teaching etiquette and decorum
to other girls, without the pedantry of it biting into yourself a bit. But it was Jonathan,
and he was my husband, and we didn't know anybody who saw us, and we didn't care if
they did. So on we walked. I was looking at a very beautiful girl, in a big cartwheel
hat, sitting in a Victoria, outside Galenios, and I felt Jonathan clutch my arm so tight
that he hurt me, and he said, under his breath, my God, I am all alone, and I don't know
always anxious about Jonathan, for I fear that some nervous fit may upset him again.
So I turned to him quickly and asked him what it was that disturbed him. He was very pale,
and his eyes seemed bulging out as, half in terror and half in amazement, he gazed at
a tall, thin man, with a beaky nose and black mustache and pointing beard, who was also
observing the pretty girl. He was looking at her so hard that he did not see either
of us, and so I had a good view of him. His face was not a good face. It was hard and
cruel and sensual, and big white teeth that looked all the whiter because his lips were
so red, were pointed like an animal's. Jonathan kept staring at him, till I was afraid he
would notice. I feared he might take it ill. He looked so fierce and nasty. I asked Jonathan
why he was disturbed, and he answered, evidently thinking I knew as much about it as he did.
Do you see who it is? No, dear, I said. I don't know him. Who is it? His answer seemed
a shock and thrill me, for it was said as if he did not know that it was me, Mina, to
whom we were speaking. It is the man himself. The poor dear was evidently terrified at something,
very greatly terrified. I do believe that if he had not had me to lean on and to support
him he would have sunk down. He kept staring. A man came out of the shop with a small parcel
and gave it to the lady, who then drove off. The dark man kept his eyes fixed on her, and
when the carriage moved up Piccadilly he followed in the same direction and hailed a handsome.
Jonathan kept looking after him and said, as if to himself, I believe it is the Count,
but he has grown young. My God, if this be so! Oh, my God, my God! If only I knew! If
only I knew! He was distressing himself so much that I feared to keep his mind on the
subject by asking him any questions, so I remained silent. I drew away quietly, and
he, holding my arm, came easily. We walked a little further, and then went in and sat
for a while in the green park. It was a hot day for autumn, and there was a comfortable
seat in a shady place. After a few minutes staring at nothing, Jonathan's eyes closed,
and he went quickly into his sleep with his head on my shoulder. I thought it was the
best thing for him, so did not disturb him. In about twenty minutes he woke up and said
to me quite cheerfully, Why, Mina, have I been asleep? Oh, do forgive me for being so
rude. Come, and we'll have a cup of tea somewhere. He had evidently forgotten all about the dark
stranger, as in his illness he had forgotten all that this episode had reminded him of.
I don't like this lapsing into forgetfulness. It may make or continue some injury to the
brain. I must not ask him, for fear I shall do more harm than good, but I must somehow
learn the facts of his journey abroad. The time has come, I fear, when I must open the
parcel and know what is written. Oh, Jonathan, you will, I know, forgive me if I do wrong,
but it is for your own dear sake.
Later, a sad homecoming in every way, the house empty of the dear soul who was so good
to us, Jonathan still pale and dizzy under a slight relapse of his malady, and now a telegram
from Van Helsing, whoever he may be.
You will be grieved to hear that Mrs. Westenra died five days ago, and that Lucy died the
day before yesterday. They were both buried today.
Oh, what a wealth of sorrow in a few words! Poor Mrs. Westenra! Poor Lucy! Gone! Gone!
Never to return to us! And poor, poor Arthur, to have lost such a sweetness out of his life!
God help us all to bear our troubles!
Dr. Seward's Diary, continued.
22 September. It is all over. Arthur has gone back to Ring, and has taken Quincy Morris
with him. What a fine fellow is Quincy! I believe in my heart of hearts that he suffered
as much about Lucy's death as any of us, but he bore himself through it like a moral liking.
If America can go on breeding men like that, she will be a power in the world indeed.
Van Helsing is lying down, having a rest preparatory to his journey. He goes to Amsterdam tonight,
but says he will return tomorrow night, that he only wants to make some arrangements, which
can only be made personally. He is to stop with me then, if he can. He says he has work
to do in London which may take him some time. Poor old fellow! I fear that the strain of
the past week has broken down even his iron strength. All the time of the burial he was,
I could see, putting some terrible restraint on himself. When it was all over, we were
standing besides Arthur, who, poor fellow, was speaking of his part in the operation
where his blood had been transfused to his Lucy's veins. I could see Van Helsing's face
grow white and purple by turns. Arthur was saying he felt since then as if they too had
been really married, and that she was his wife in the sight of God. None of us said
a word of the other two operations, and none of us ever shall. Arthur and Quincy went away
together to the station, and Van Helsing and I came on here. The moment we were alone in
the carriage, he gave way to a regular fit of hysterics. He has denied to me since that
it was hysterics, and insisted that it was only a sense of humour asserting itself under
very terrible conditions. He laughed till he cried, and I had to draw down the blinds,
lest anyone should see us and misjudge. And then he cried till he laughed again, and laughed
and cried together, just as a woman does. I tried to be stern with him, as one is to
a woman under the circumstances, but it had no effect. Men and women are so different
in manifestations of nervous strength or weakness. Then when his face grew grave and
stern again, I asked him why his mirth, and why at such a time. His reply was in a way
characteristic of him, for it was logical and forceful and mysterious. He said, Ah,
you don't comprehend, friend John. Do not think that I am not sad, though I laugh. See,
I have cried even when the laugh did choke me. But no more think that I am sorry when
I cry, for the laugh he come just the same. Keep it always with you, that laughter who
knock at your door and say, May I come in? It is not true laughter. No, he is a king,
and he come when and how he like. He ask no person, he choose no time of suitability.
He say I am here. Behold an example I grieve my heart out, for that so young sweet girl.
I give my blood for her, though I am old and worn. I give my time, my skill, my sleep.
I let my other sufferers want that she may have it all. And yet I can laugh at her very
grave, laugh when the clay from the spade of the sexton drop upon her coffin and say,
Thud, thud, to my heart, till it send back the blood from my cheek. My heart bleed for
that poor boy, that dear boy, so of an age of mine own boy had I been so blessed that
he live, and with his hair and eyes the same. There, you know now why I love you, friend.
I love him so. And yet when he say things that touch my husband heart to the quick,
and make my father heart yearn to him as to no other man, not even you, friend John, for
we are more level in experiences than father and son. Yet even at such a moment, king laugh,
he come to me and shout and bellow in my ear, Here I am, here I am, till the blood come
dance back and bring some of the sunshine that he carry with him to my cheek. Oh friend
John, it is a strange world, a sad world, a world full of miseries and woes and troubles.
And yet when king laugh come, he make them all dance to the tune he play. Bleeding hearts
and dry bones of the churchyard and tears that burn as they fall, all dance together
to the music that he make with his smileless mouth of him. And believe me friend John,
that he is good to come and kind. Ah, we men and women are like ropes drawn tight with
strain that pull us different ways. Then tears come and like the rain on the ropes they brace
us up, until perhaps the strain become too great and we break. But king laugh he come
like the sunshine and he ease off the strain again and we bear to go on with our labor,
what it may be. I did not like to wound him by pretending not to see his idea. But as
I did not yet understand the cause of his laughter, I asked him. As he answered me his
face grew stern and he said in quite a different tone, Oh, it was the grim irony of it all,
this so lovely lady, garlanded with flowers that looked so fair as life, till one by one
we wondered if she were truly dead. She laid in that so fine marble house, in that lonely
churchyard where rests so many of her kin, lay there with the mother who loved her and
whom she loved, and that sacred bell going toll, toll, toll, so sad and slow, and those
holy men with the white garments of the angel, pretending to read books, and yet all the
time their eyes never on the page, and all of us with the bowed head, and for what? She
is dead, so is it not? Well, for the life of me, professor, I said, I can't see anything
to laugh at and all that. Why, your expression makes it a harder puzzle than before. But
even if the burial service was comic, what about poor art and his trouble? Why, his heart
was simply breaking. Just so, said he not that the transfusion of his blood to her veins
had made her truly his bride. Yes, and it was a sweet and comforting idea for him. Quite
so. But there was a difficulty, friend John. If so that, then what about the others? Ho,
ho. Then this so sweet maid is a polyandrist, and me, with my poor wife dead to me, but
alive by church's law, though no wits, all gone, even I, who am faithful husband to his
now no wife, am bigamist. I don't see where the joke comes in there either, I said, and
I did not feel particularly pleased with him for saying such things. He laid his hand on
my arm and said, Friend John, forgive me if I pain. I showed not my feelings to others
when it would wound, but only to you, my old friend, whom I can trust. If you could have
looked into my heart, then when I want to laugh, if you could have done so when the
laughed arrived, if you could do so now, when King Laugh have packed up his crown and all
that is to him, for he go far, far from me, and for a long, long time, maybe you would,
perhaps, pity me the most of all. I was touched by the tenderness of his tone and asked why.
Because I know. And now we are all scattered, and for many a long day loneliness will sit
over our roofs with brooding wings. Lucy lies in the tomb of her kin, a lordly death house
in a lonely churchyard, away from teeming London, where the air is fresh and the sun
rises over Hampstead Hill, and where wildflowers grow of their own accord. So I can finish
this diary, and God only knows if I shall ever begin another. If I do, or if I even
open this again, it will be to deal with different people and different themes, for here at the
end, where the romance of my life is told, ere I go back to take up the thread of my
life work, I say sadly and without hope, fini.
The Westminster Gazette. 25 September. A Hampstead Mystery. The neighborhood of Hampstead is
just at present, exercised with a series of events which seem to run on lines parallel
to those of what was known to the writers of headlines as The Kensington Horror, or
The Stabbing Woman, or The Woman in Black. During the past two or three days, several
cases have occurred of young children straying from home or neglecting to return from their
playing on the heath. In all these cases the children were too young to give any properly
intelligible account of themselves, but the consensus of their excuses is that they had
been with a blooper lady. It has always been late in the evening when they have been missed,
and on two occasions the children had not been found until early in the following morning.
It is generally supposed in the neighborhood that, as the first child missed gave his reason
for being away that a blooper lady had asked him to come for a walk, the others had picked
up the phrase and used it as occasion served. This is the more natural as the favorite game
of the little ones at present is luring each other away by wiles. A correspondent writes
us that to see some of the tiny tots pretending to be the blooper lady is supremely funny.
Some of our characteristics might, he says, take a lesson in the irony of grotesque by
comparing the reality in the picture. It is only in accordance with general principles
of human nature that the blooper lady should be the popular role at these alfresco performances.
Our correspondent naively says that even Ellen Terry could not be so winningly attractive as
some of these grubby-faced little children pretend and even imagine themselves to be.
There is, however, possibly a serious side to the question, for some of the children,
indeed all who have been missed at night, have been slightly torn or wounded in the
throat. The wounds seem such as might be made by a rat or a small dog, and although of not
much importance individually, would tend to show that whatever animal inflicts them has
a system or method of its own. The police of the division have been instructed to keep
a sharp lookout for straying children, especially when very young, in and around Hampstead Heath,
and for any stray dog which may be about.
The Westminster Gazette, 25 September. Extra Special. The Hampstead Horror. Another child
injured. The blooper lady. We have just received intelligence that another child missed last
night was only discovered late in the morning under a firs bush at the Shooter's Hill side
of Hampstead Heath, which is perhaps less frequented than the other parts. It has the
same tiny wound in the throat as has been noticed in other cases. It was terribly weak
and looked quite emaciated, yet too impartially restored had the common story to tell of being
lured away by the blooper lady.
Recorded by Marlo Diane. April 21-26, 2006. Piscid West, Prince Edward Island.